
@menu
* What is Bro? ::
* Bro features and benefits ::
* Getting more Information ::
@end menu

@node What is Bro?
@section What is Bro?
@cindex Network Intrusion Detection System

Bro is a Unix-based Network Intrusion Detection System (IDS).  Bro monitors network traffic and detects intrusion attempts based on the traffic 
characteristics and content.  Bro detects intrusions by passing network traffic through rules describing events that are deemed troublesome.  These rules 
might describe activities (e.g., certain hosts connecting to certain services), what activities are worth alarming (e.g., attempts to a given number of different hosts constitutes 
a "scan"), or signatures describing known attacks or access to known vulnerabilities.  If Bro detects something of interest, it can be instructed to either issue a log entry or initiate the execution of an operating system command (such as sending email, or creating a router entry to block an address).

Bro targets high-speed (Gbit/second), high-volume intrusion detection. By judiciously leveraging packet filtering techniques, 
Bro is able to achieve the performance necessary to do so while running on commercially 
available PC hardware, and thus can serve as a cost effective means of monitoring a site's Internet connection.


@node Bro features and benefits
@section Bro features and benefits

@itemize
@item @strong{Network Based}
@quotation
Bro is a network-based IDS.  It collects, filters, and analyzes traffic that passes through a specific
network location.  A single Bro monitor, strategically placed at a key network junction, can be
used to monitor all incoming and outgoing traffic for the entire site.  Bro does not use or
require installation of client software on each individual, networked computer.
@end quotation

@item @strong{Custom Scripting Language}
@quotation
Bro policy scripts are programs written in the Bro language.  They contain the "rules" that
describe what sorts of activities are deemed troublesome.  They analyze the network activity and
initiate actions based on the analysis.  Although the Bro language takes some time and effort to
learn, once mastered, the Bro user can write or modify Bro policies to detect and notify or alarm on virtually
any type of network activity.
@end quotation

@item @strong{Pre-written Policy Scripts}
@quotation
Bro comes with a rich set of policy scripts designed to detect the most common Internet attacks
while limiting the number of false positives, i.e., alarms that confuse uninteresting activity with the
important attack activity.  These supplied policy scripts will run "out of the box" and do not
require knowledge of the Bro language or policy script mechanics.
@end quotation

@item @strong{Powerful Signature Matching Facility}
@quotation
Bro policies incorporate a signature matching facility that looks for specific traffic content.  For
Bro, these signatures are expressed as regular expressions, rather than fixed strings.  Bro adds a
great deal of power to its signature-matching capability because of its rich language.  This allows
Bro to not only examine the network content, but to understand the context of the signature,
greatly reducing the number of false positives.  Bro comes with a set of high-value signatures,
selected for their high detection and low false positive characteristics,
as well as policy scripts that perform more detailed analysis.
@end quotation

@item @strong{Network Traffic Analysis}
@quotation
Bro not only looks for signatures, but also analyzes network protocols, connections,
transactions, data volumes, and many other network characteristics.  It has powerful facilities for
storing information about past activity and incorporating it into analyses of new activity.
@end quotation

@item @strong{Detection Followed by Action}
@quotation
Bro policy scripts can generate output files recording the activity seen on the network (including
normal, non-attack activity).  They can also send alarms to event logs, including the
operating system @emph{syslog} facility.  In addition, scripts can execute programs, which can, in turn,
send e-mail messages, page the on-call staff, automatically terminate existing connections, or, with
appropriate additional software, insert access control blocks into a router's access control list.
With Bro's ability to execute programs at the operating system level, the actions that Bro can
initiate are only limited by the computer and network capabilities that support Bro.
@end quotation

@item @strong{@uref{http://www.snort.org/,Snort} Compatibility Support}
@cindex Snort
@quotation
The Bro distribution includes a tool, snort2bro, which converts Snort signatures into Bro
signatures.  Along with translating the format of the signatures, snort2bro also incorporates a large
number of enhancements to the standard set of Snort signatures to take advantage of Bro's
additional contextual power and reduce false positives.
@end quotation


@end itemize

@node Getting more Information 
@section Getting more Information 

@itemize
@item @strong{Reference manual}
@quotation
An extensive @uref{http://www.bro-ids.org/manuals.html,reference manual} is provided detailing the Bro Policy Language
@end quotation

@item @strong{FAQ}
@cindex FAQ
@quotation
Several Frequently Asked Questions are outlined in the @uref{http://www.bro-ids.org/FAQ.html,Bro FAQ}.  
If you have a question not already covered
in the FAQ, send it to us and we'll add it.
@end quotation

@item @strong{E-mail list}
@cindex Email list
@quotation
Send questions on any Bro subject to bro@@bro-ids.org
The list is frequented by all of the Bro developers.

You can subscribe by going to the website: 
@* @uref{http://mailman.icsi.berkeley.edu/mailman/listinfo/bro},
@*
or by placing the following command in either the subject or the body of a message addressed to
bro-request@@icsi.berkeley.edu.

@example
subscribe [password] [digest-option] [address=<address>]
@end example

A password must be given to
unsubscribe or change your options.  Once subscribed to the
list, you'll be reminded of your password periodically.
The "digest-option" may be either: "nodigest" or "digest" (no
quotes!).  If you wish to subscribe an address other than the
address you use to send this request from, you may specify
"address=<email address>" (no brackets around the email
address, no quotes!)

@end quotation

@item @strong{Website}
@quotation
The official Bro website is located at:
@uref{http://www.bro-ids.org}.
It contains all of the above documentation and more.
@end quotation

@end itemize
