@node References
@chapter References


@itemize
@item [RFC2373] R. Hinden and S. Deering, IP Version 6 Addressing Architecture,
RFC-2373, Jul. 1998.

@item [MJ93] S. McCanne and V. Jacobson,
The BSD Packet Filter:  A New Architecture for User-level Packet Capture,
Proc.1993 Winter USENIX Conference, San Diego, CA.

@item [MLJ94] S. McCanne, C. Leres and V. Jacobson,
libpcap, available via anonymous ftp from @uref{http://www.tcpdump.org}, 1994.

@item [Pa98] V. Paxson,
Bro: A System for Detecting Network Intruders in Real-Time,
Proc. 7th USENIX Security Symposium, Jan. 1998.

@item [Pa99]
V. Paxson, Bro: A System for Detecting Network Intruders
in Real-Time, Computer Networks: special issue on intrusion detection,
31(23--24), pp. 2435-2463, Dec. 1999.

@item [PN98] T. Ptacek and T. Newsham,
Insertion, Evasion, and Denial of Service: Eluding Network
Intrusion Detection, Secure Networks, Inc.,
@uref{http://www.aciri.org/vern/Ptacek-Newsham-Evasion-98.ps},
Jan. 1998.

@item [RFC791] J. Postel, Internet Protocol, RFC-791, Sep. 1981.

@item [RFC793] J. Postel, Transmission Control Protocol,
RFC-793, Sep. 1981.

@item [RFC854] J. Postel and J. Reynolds,
Telnet Protocol Specification, May 1983.

@item [RFC855] J. Postel and J. Reynolds,
Telnet Option Specifications, RFC-855, May 1983.

@item [RFC959] J. Postel and J. Reynolds, File Transfer Protocol (FTP),
RFC-959, Oct. 1985.

@item [RFC1013] R. Scheifler,
X Window System Protocol, version 11: Alpha update,
RFC-1013, Apr. 1987.

@item [RFC1094] Sun Microsystems,
NFS: Network File System Protocol specification,
RFC-1094, Mar. 1989.

@item [RFC1122] B. Braden,
Requirements for Internet hosts - communication layers,
RFC-1122, Oct. 1989.

@item [RFC1282] B. Kantor, BSD Rlogin, RFC-1282, Dec. 1991.

@item [RFC1288] D. Zimmerman,
The Finger User Information Protocol, RFC-1288, Dec. 1991.

@item [RFC1413] M. St. Johns, Identification Protocol, RFC-1413, Jan. 1993.

@item [RFC1644] B. Braden,
T/TCP -- TCP Extensions for Transactions Functional Specification,
RFC-1644, Jul. 1994.

@item [RFC1813] B. Callaghan, B. Pawlowski, P. Staubach,
NFS Version 3 Protocol Specification,
RFC-1813, June 1995.

@item [RFC1831] R. Srinivasan, 
RPC: Remote Procedure Call Protocol Specification Version 2,
RFC-1831, Aug. 1995.

@item [RFC1832] R. Srinivasan, XDR: External Data Representation Standard,
RFC-1832, Aug. 1995.

@item [RFC1939] J. Myers and M. Rose, Post Office Protocol - Version 3,
RFC-1939, May 1996.

@item [RFC1945] T. Berners-Lee, R. Fielding and H. Frystyk,
Hypertext Transfer Protocol -- HTTP/1.0,
RFC-1945, May 1996.

@item [RFC2616] J. Mogul, H. Frystyk, L. Masinter, P. Leach, T. Berners-Lee,
Hypertext Transfer Protocol -- HTTP/1.1,
RFC-2626, Jun. 1999.

@item [YKSRL00] T. Ylonen, T. Kivinen, M. Saarinen, T. Rinne and S. Lehtinen,
SSH Connection Protocol, Internet Draft
draft-ietf-secsh-connect-07.txt, May 2000.

@item [SSLv2] Kipp E.B. Hickman, 
The SSL Protocol, Netscape Communications Corp.
@emph{http://wp.netscape.com/eng/security/SSL_2.html}, February 1995.

@item [SSLv30] Alan O. Freier, Philip Karlton, Paul C. Kocher,
The SSL Protocol Version 3.0, Internet Draft
@emph{draft-freier-ssl-version3-02.txt}, November 1996.

@item [TLSv1] T. Dierks, C. Allen,
`` The TLS Protocol Version 1.0,'' RFC-2246, January 1999.

@item [SSL-FIPS] Nelson Bolyard, Wan-Teh Chang,
FIPS SSL CipherSuites,
@uref{http://www.mozilla.org/projects/security/pki/nss/ssl/fips-ssl-ciphersuites.html}, June 2001.

@item [SSL-AES] P. Chown, 
Advanced Encryption Standard (AES) Ciphersuites for Transport 
Layer Security (TLS), RFC-3268, June 2002.

@item [TLS-56] John Banes, Richard Harrington,
56-bit Export Cipher Suites For TLS, Internet Draft
@emph{draft-ietf-tls-56-bit-ciphersuites-00.txt}, April 1999.

@item [X509] R. Housley, W. Polk, W. Ford, D. Solo,
Internet X.509 Public Key Infrastructure Certificate and 
Certificate Revocation List (CRL) Profile,
RFC-3280, June 2002.

@end itemize
