.. _devel-cluster-spawning-cluster:

==================
Spawning a Cluster
==================

Introduction
------------

A Zeek cluster is a collection of worker, logger and proxy
processes as well as a single manager process. See the :ref:`Cluster Architectures <devel-cluster-architectures>`
for a more detailed introduction. This section gives a short and general
overview how to run these processes by hand in order to spawn a Zeek cluster.

The main ingredients needed to run a Zeek cluster as of Zeek 8.1 are

  * the ``cluster-layout.zeek`` file
  * a mechanism to spawn processes

For a production setup, you'd also include a monitoring component that
restarts any crashed processes, monitors and reports on their health, etc.

.. note::

   You are reading low-level background information for developers.
   As a Zeek user or operator, you usually use :ref:`ZeekControl <cluster-configuration>`
   or other high-level tools to operate a Zeek cluster.

Cluster Layout
--------------

All Zeek processes (also called nodes) that are part of a Zeek cluster are
given unique names. Conventionally, the name is the
type of node (``worker``, ``proxy``, ``logger`` or ``manager``) suffixed with
an incrementing number that starts at ``1`` (except for the manager node).
It's useful to always use a number suffix even if there's only a single instance
of the process in a cluster. Don't use ``0`` padding for the numbering, as it
complicates things.

When a single Zeek cluster spans multiple hosts or two interfaces are monitored,
the naming scheme is conventionally extended to include another incrementing number
to produce ``worker-1-1``, ``worker-1-2``, ``worker-2-1`` and ``worker-2-2``,
where the first number is the number of the host and the second is the number
of the node.
There's some flexibility here, however, and any naming scheme can be chosen.

These node names are used as keys in the :zeek:see:`Cluster::nodes` table. This table
is conventionally populated via :zeek:keyword:`redef` when Zeek loads the
``cluster-layout.zeek`` file that has to be available somewhere in the ``ZEEKPATH``.
Note that the :ref:`Supervisor Framework <framework-supervisor>` implementation
uses a custom IPC mechanism to pass this information to the processes instead.
We exclude it from the following discussion.

Since Zeek 8.1, there's a small utility available called ``zeek-cluster-layout-generator``
that you may use to produce a basic ``cluster-layout.zeek`` file given the number
of processes.

The following listing shows the output of running this tool for a Zeek cluster with
2 workers, 1 logger, 1 proxy and a manager. As mentioned, the :zeek:keyword:`redef`
of the :zeek:see:`Cluster::nodes` variable is the crucial part here.

.. code-block::

    $ zeek-cluster-layout-generator -W 2
    # Auto-generated by zeek-cluster-layout-generator

    redef Cluster::manager_is_logger = F;

    redef Cluster::nodes += {
        ["manager"] = [$node_type=Cluster::MANAGER, $ip=127.0.0.1, $p=27760/tcp, $metrics_port=9991/tcp],
        ["logger-1"] = [$node_type=Cluster::LOGGER, $ip=127.0.0.1, $p=27761/tcp, $manager="manager", $metrics_port=9992/tcp],
        ["proxy-1"] = [$node_type=Cluster::PROXY, $ip=127.0.0.1, $p=27762/tcp, $manager="manager", $metrics_port=9993/tcp],
        ["worker-1"] = [$node_type=Cluster::WORKER, $ip=127.0.0.1, $manager="manager", $metrics_port=9994/tcp],
        ["worker-2"] = [$node_type=Cluster::WORKER, $ip=127.0.0.1, $manager="manager", $metrics_port=9995/tcp],
    };

    @load base/frameworks/telemetry/options
    redef Telemetry::metrics_address = "0.0.0.0";
    redef Telemetry::metrics_port = Cluster::local_node_metrics_port();

.. note::

    With the arrival of the ZeroMQ cluster backend, a number of fields in
    the cluster layout aren't very important anymore. Indeed, there's ideas
    and thoughts around `removing the static cluster-layout.zeek file <https://github.com/zeek/zeek/discussions/5208>`_
    completely. For the time being, however, assume that you need to pre-render
    the full ``cluster-layout.zeek`` file.

Spawning Processes
------------------

Once the ``cluster-layout.zeek`` file has been generated, spawn
individual cluster processes as follows:

  * Set and export the ``ZEEKPATH`` environment variable such that it contains
    the directory in which the ``cluster-layout.zeek`` file is located, or
    alternatively copy the generated ``cluster-layout.zeek`` file into the
    working directory of each node as created below (``.`` is in the default ``ZEEKPATH``).

  * Create working directories for all processes to be spawned. Conventionally
    these are named like the node itself, e.g, ``worker-1`` or ``manager``
    or ``logger-1``.

  * Change into the working directory and set the ``CLUSTER_NODE`` environment
    variable to the name of the cluster process.

  * Execute the ``zeek`` process, passing arguments as needed. Record its PID.
    All processes should receive ``local`` by default to load the ``local.zeek``
    file. Workers will generally also receive the ``-i <interface>`` argument,
    with the interface possibly prefixed by the packet source plugin to use.
    On Linux, using AF_PACKET and interface ``eth0``, this would then end up
    as ``-i af_packet::eth0``.

  * For pinning processes to CPUs, one common approach is to use the
    `taskset <https://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man1/taskset.1.html>`_
    utility and execute ``zeek`` using it instead.


Minimal Shell-Based Supervisor
------------------------------

The following shell script implements steps outlined above.

.. warning::

   Do not use this script in production! It's solely for documentation
   and demonstration purposes and contains only the bare minimum to get
   a Zeek cluster off the ground!

.. literalinclude:: ./supervisor.sh
   :caption: supervisor.sh
   :language: shell

Running this script and outputting the process tree gives the usual Zeek
cluster process tree you might be used to from elsewhere.

.. code-block::

    $ ZEEK_WORKERS=2 ZEEK_INTERFACE=af_packet::lo ./supervisor.sh

    $ pstree -acT  44168
    bash
      └─supervisor.sh ./supervisor.sh
          ├─zeek local policy/frameworks/cluster/backend/zeromq
          ├─zeek local policy/frameworks/cluster/backend/zeromq
          ├─zeek local policy/frameworks/cluster/backend/zeromq
          ├─zeek local policy/frameworks/cluster/backend/zeromq
          ├─zeek -C -i af_packet::lo local policy/frameworks/cluster/backend/zeromq
          └─zeek -C -i af_packet::lo local policy/frameworks/cluster/backend/zeromq

Hopefully this removes some of the magic around what a Zeek cluster is, how
it is spawned, etc. If you're now tempted to write systemd service units,
take a look at the `zeek-systemd-generator <https://github.com/zeek/zeek/tree/master/tools/systemd-generator>`_
first!
