.. _using-packages:

################
 Using Packages
################

Zeek contains a decent amount of functionality “out of the box” - but
its strength comes from the plugin ecosystem. These packages are managed
by the Zeek Package Manager, or ``zkg``. Then, you can find packages on
the Zeek Package Browser. This section will explain how to use ``zkg``
in order to get the packages you need.

TODO: The following section would be replaced by the scripting
tutorial’s package. That’s because right now the tests fail and we don’t
control it. Though, we could fix those instead, and have them be
different.

*********************************
 Finding and Installing Packages
*********************************

Say you’re particularly worried about CVE-2022-26809 (there is nothing
special about this CVE, it’s simply an exploit that we can use for
demonstration). Zeek does not offer any detection for this
out-of-the-box. But, if you look on the Zeek Package Browser (linked
above), you can easily find a package by Corelight. Let’s install it.

First, since this is on the official Zeek package browser, you can
install it with just the package name:

   .. code:: console

      root@zeek-tutorial:/opt/scratch $ zkg install cve-2022-26809

You may also use the git URL of the package:

   .. code:: console

      root@zeek-tutorial:/opt/scratch $ zkg install https://github.com/corelight/cve-2022-26809

This will ask you to run the tests. TODO: This case the tests fail :( :(
:(

Now, you’ll find the same pcap from the tests in that repository in the
traces/ directory. Try running Zeek on it:

   .. code:: console

      root@zeek-tutorial:/opt/scratch $ zeek -r traces/cve-2022-26809-4.pcap

This particular package creates notices when it’s detected, but there
isn’t a notice.log! Packages have to be enabled in order to run. This is
done differently when executing Zeek on the command line versus in the
cluster. We’ll get to the cluster version later (TODO link cluster
section). For now, you can load the package by just including its name
in the command line:

   .. code:: console

      root@zeek-tutorial:/opt/scratch $ zeek -r traces/cve-2022-26809-4.pcap cve-2022-26809

Then check the ``notice.log``:

   .. code:: console

      root@zeek-tutorial:/opt/scratch $ cat notice.log | zeek-cut
      1649954026.163197       -       -       -       -       -       -       -       -       -  CVE_2022_26809::ExploitAttempt   192.168.56.104 attempting exploit on 192.168.56.102     Using opnum 5       -       -       -       -       -       Notice::ACTION_LOG      (empty) 3600.000000 -       -       -       -       -
      1649954026.275892       -       -       -       -       -       -       -       -       -  CVE_2022_26809::ExploitSuccess   192.168.56.102 exploited 192.168.56.104 Found via big_endian_specific (in dce_rpc_message)  -       -       -       -       -       Notice::ACTION_LOG (empty)  3600.000000     -       -       -       -       -

We will later configure Zeek’s notice framework to react to this event.
For now, these are simply reported to ``notice.log``.

Packages should be regularly maintained and updated. When doing so,
users will want to fetch those updates. You can use ``zkg upgrade`` in
order to upgrade any packages you have, or specify a package to upgrade
just one. If you definitely don’t want to upgrade certain packages, you
can use ``zkg pin`` in order to “pin” its version.

For more commands, check out the zkg command line reference.
